# Hospital-Performance-Dashboard-Excel
Introduction: The Hospital Performance dashboard will help stakeholders to easily monitor and track hospital performance over time and make data-driven decisions to improve patient care, reduce costs, and increase operational efficiency. The left side of the dashboard provides information about quality performance. The top left Table provides the top 10 surgical categories with the highest readmission rate. This will give an idea of which surgical category needs quality improvement efforts the most. Avoidable condition chart provides information that Low Back Pain has noticeably higher avoidable encounters. Comparison between Sandy Coast, Jacobs Medical and Coventry Hospital provides information that Coventry hospital didn’t meet its goal for value-based incentive payments while others two organizations did, and Sandy coast hospital was able to keep per patient cost low compared to other two organizations. The other two charts provide information about the increase rate of total paid amount from 2012 to 2014 and how much different source of income contributed to it. Frequency analysis chart provides valuable insight of distribution of hypertension rate in all the states of USA.
KPI Recommendation: I recommend “Readmission rate” as a KPI because tracking and monitoring readmission rates, hospitals can identify potential quality of care issues and take steps to improve patient outcomes and reduce healthcare costs. A high readmission rate indicates that patients are not receiving adequate care during their initial hospitalization, which can lead to complications and additional healthcare costs. Moreover, high readmission rates can negatively impact patient satisfaction as patients may feel that they did not receive appropriate care during their initial hospital stay. Comparing readmission rates with national or regional benchmarks can help hospitals identify areas for improvement and set performance goals to reduce readmissions.
